# Draft OLP Governance

### Definitions

Open Logistics Protocol (“Protocol”) comprises a set of rules, standardized schemas, software libraries, blockchain nodes, and smart contracts that the logistics industry can use to improve transport of goods regionally as well as globally. Logistics Networks mean groups of companies that have formed for specific purposes defined by the participating companies. These networks will use OLP as an “operating system” to standardize and streamline their operations. For example, companies that move hazardous material across jurisdictions may form a network to communicate with each other and use OLP’s smart contracts for workflow standardization. OLP will NOT create such networks for reasons mentioned in Section 4. 1.3 OLP Nodes have two key functions. First, they work as gateways to the above-mentioned application specific logistics networks and communicate with other nodes in the network, and second as a gateway to submit transactions to L1/L2 blockchain infrastructure. Each node is implemented by a participating company and operates within the company’s firewall. The company may connect its legacy system with the node to interact with other nodes in the networks. The nodes also form an infrastructure layer for the networks. In OLP, nodes do not provide a consensus layer the way they provide in Layer 1 (L1) blockchain protocols. However, they provide a layer of redundancy and security by storing transactions executed in smart contracts.

### Governance Ethos

As Vlad Jamfir wrote in 2017, governance is not a design problem. Meaning it is not a one-time “ideal” solution for a fixed problem. Governance is evolutionary in which participant’s information and incentives to participate in the governance can change over time. Hence, we recognize that governance of OLP will and must evolve over time. Vlad also wrote that limiting everything to on-chain governance by token holders makes node operators irrelevant, which would be detrimental to the security of the OLP infrastructure. Hence, we’ve adopted a mixed governance of both on-chain (via token holders) and off-chain governance (via node operators), which we believe will provide necessary checks and balances between the participating entities.

### OLP’s Governance Goals&#x20;

The protocol’s governance has four goals that are consistent with the ethos of decentralization and Web 3: The protocol shall remain neutral from companies, networks, and applications that will be formed to operate on top of it. The protocol shall operate in a democratic participatory framework and eventually reach a level of decentralization such that no one entity owns the protocol. The protocol shall be governed in such a way that it will be able to scale globally irrespective of countries, languages, and most importantly modes of transport. The protocol’s governance shall ensure that OLP remains self-sustainable and evolves with the needs of the industry.

### Regulatory and Antitrust Compliance is Critical to Scale

Logistics worldwide is somewhat a regulated industry in the sense that companies must have proper registration, license, authority, insurance to operate as logistics providers, whether that be carriers, brokers, freight forwarders. It will remain such for a foreseeable future. For OLP to scale, it must comply with global and regional transport regulations or at minimum does not conflict with them. That means, OLP as a protocol should implement the underlying infrastructure and contract logics so as not to conflict with current transport related rules and regulations. For example, most countries have strict antitrust rules that prohibit companies from forming cartels to manipulate market prices. Although the protocol itself may not be able to prevent companies from using OLP to create cartels (specialized networks), the protocol shall neither support nor directly and deliberately facilitate such activities. The OLP’s terms of service will include commitment by the companies not to use the protocol in illegal activities.

### Neutrality from Logistics Networks&#x20;

We anticipate companies will form their own networks on top of the protocol. Such networks may be regional and global across international boundaries as well as specialized (such as network of hazmat carriers, cross border transport, sea, rail, air shipments.) It is important to note that the protocol will remain neutral, and air-gapped from networks created by the companies. This allows the protocol to be free from regulatory and trade compliance as well as free from jurisdictional oversights that may be subject to these networks.
