# Use Cases of OLP

## Business Case 1: Standardized and Enforceable Rate Confirmations
Every transaction between 3pls / shippers and carriers requires a rate confirmation agreement to be signed between parties, this is usually executed in paper and exchange using email and faxes as an addendum to a carrier-broker agreement already in place. With the average truckload transaction being around $1200, these agreements are very difficult to enforce and are prone to disputes.
We replace them with self-executable smart contracts, in which the details of the transaction are immutably recorded and cryptographically signed by the transacting parties, this powerful piece of technology keeps track of the shipment lifecycle and enables cross-company workflow automation from booking to payment.

## Business Case 2: Access to Inexpensive and Programmable Liquidity 
Brokers and carriers access to short term liquidity is mostly via factoring companies and lines of credit. They are expensive and often factoring companies tie the carriers into umbrella contracts. Carriers have to pay hefty fines to break the contract and sometimes cannot receive payment from third parties. This creates an inflexible environment for carriers to seek liquidity outside of the contract whenever they need. With decentralized finance, carriers are not bound by any contracts and they have complete control over where to find cheaper liquidity whenever they want. We want to provide traditional industry with the innovative programmable money. This opens up the door for better structure of payment to carriers such as milestone based payments instead of paying several days after delivery.  

## Business Case 3: Transparent Bundling of Partial Shipments
Brokers are in fact a semi efficient network in itself because of the large number of carriers they contract with, especially in the spot market. It is cumbersome for them to bundle partial loads with other brokers to form a full truck load because they don’t have visibility of each other’s loads and could potentially create legal issues (antitrust laws) if they do so themselves. A neutral third party system or entity is needed to bundle partial loads. One of the application layers on the decentralized network will be an efficient marketplace with partial load attributes. Carriers can bid on multiple partial shipments to form a full truck load shipments or another user can bundle shipments and tender them as full truckload to available carriers. We believe the decentralized network will shield the companies from antitrust laws since the information is being shared with a wider network and it is the carriers or third party bundling the shipments. 

## Business Case 4: Decentralized Root of Trust for Business Enforcement 
We believe the common utility and core services for the freight industry cannot and must not be built on top of a centralized ledger managed and controlled by a single person/entity. Risks for doing so are obvious- centralized control, single point of failure, collusion, manipulation of facts. We used A decentralized blockchain such as Ethereum to host such a common utility (called core services.) It not only hosts those services as smart contracts, but also provides a neutral enforcer of them. 

## Business Case 5: Removal of Open Ended and Duplicate Shipments  
The industry is extremely siloed in terms of information discovery. Brokers and shippers post available shipments in multiple load boards, where the shipment is not processed, only listed. Carriers call the brokers after seeing the loads, not knowing if the load has been consummated Due to absence of a true transparency of shipment consumption, both brokers and carriers waste valuable time on loads that are unavailable. In a decentralized framework, every shipment will be assigned a universal Decentralized Identifiers or DID and hashed in a distributed ledger, from there it can be made available simultaneously in multiple marketplaces that act as individual order books. Each marketplace can augment them with AI for improving matching processes, once booked shipments can be flagged and subsequently removed from all marketplaces. Also, a staking approach will be used in which shipment originators are required to maintain a stake similar to a security deposit, as a requirement to post available shipments and broadcast them to the network, such stake can then be slashed if shipments are fake or duplicated. A similar stake functionality ensures that carrier capacity availability is accurate and up to date.

## Interactions and Interoperability with Other Networks
Logistics is an integral part of supply chain solutions. It provides a critical step of transportation of materials, parts, and finished products. Traceability of parts and materials is a key requirement for many manufacturers to fulfill regulatory compliance, preserve product quality, measure greenhouse gas emissions etc. A manufacturer typically requests transportation events from the assigned carrier. We envision these manufacturers utilizing several core services as part of the transportation workflow. For example, they can verify identification of a company that is transporting goods on their behalf. Manufacturers, insurance companies, and factoring companies can verify if the shipment was agreed upon by the broker/freight forwarder and a carrier in case of disputes and claims. They can query on-chain reputation of transportation providers. 

{Insert Figure 7}
